# EyeAI: AI-Assisted Ocular Disease Detection for Equitable Healthcare Access
## Shiv Garg
Ocular disease challenges billions of individuals unevenly across the world and continues to increase in prevalence in relation to trends of growing populations of diabetic people, increasing lifespans of humans, and rising costs of care. We present EyeAI, a novel, innovative system designed to provide artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted ocular disease detection to enhance global health. Leveraging a con- volutional neural network (CNN) model to analyze 3200 retinal fundus images, EyeAI diagnoses ocular disease prevalence, particularly for equitable access to care in underprivileged areas and for support of physicians through a secondary diag- nostic opinion. With an accuracy of 80% and an area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) of 0.698, EyeAI addresses significant barriers to traditional ophthalmologic care by facilitating low-cost, real-time diagnosis and mitigating barriers to traditional high-cost, high-touch ophthalmologic care. EyeAI further emphasizes affordability and accessibility by applying the model to a web-based application, enabling rapid and remote diagnostics. Data preprocessing, training procedures, and performance evaluation of the AI model, alongside the practical implications for global health equity, are key points of discussion of the EyeAI system. Results demonstrate the immense potential of EyeAI to revolutionize ocular healthcare by providing scalable, efficient, and accessible diagnostic tools. Future work will focus on expanding the training dataset and enhancing the model’s accuracy to improve diagnostic capabilities further.
